=head1 NAME

MCE::Inbox - Channel-like messaging supporting threads and processes

=head1 VERSION

This document describes MCE::Inbox version 0.001

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use MCE::Inbox;

 my $inbox = MCE::Inbox->new(qw/foo bar baz/);

 $inbox->send('foo', qw/arg1 arg2 argN/);
 $inbox->send([ 'bar', 'baz' ], 'hello');

 my @args = $inbox->recv('foo');
 my $msg1 = $inbox->recv('bar');
 my $msg2 = $inbox->recv('baz');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A MCE::Inbox is a shared container for sending and receiving messages via
C<Thread::Queue>, when C<threads> is present, or C<MCE::Shared::Queue>
otherwise. Serialization is provided by L<Sereal> if available or L<Storable>.
Both ends of the C<inbox> for a given ID can be read and written by as many
workers as you want concurrently.

=over 3

=item new( @ids )

This constructs a queue object for each ID in the list. It is not possible
to add or remove an ID afterwards.

 @names = qw(foo bar baz);
 $inbox = MCE::Inbox->new(@names);

=item limit( $id, $size )

=item limit( \@list, $size )

Set the maximum number of messages pending for the given ID or list of IDs.
This will cause send to block when the limit is reached until another worker
receives again.

 $inbox->limit('foo', 100);
 $inbox->limit([ 'bar', 'baz' ], 200);

=item recv( $id )

=item recv_nb( $id )

Blocking and non-blocking fetch methods. For the latter and when the queue
associated with the ID is empty, returns C<an empty list> in list context
or C<undef> in scalar context.

 @args = $inbox->recv('foo');
 @args = $inbox->recv_nb('foo');

 $mesg = $inbox->recv('bar');
 $mesg = $inbox->recv_nb('bar');

=item send( $id, @data )

=item send( \@list, @data )

Send a message to an ID or list of IDs.

 $inbox->send('foo', qw/arg1 arg2 argN/);
 $inbox->send([ 'bar', 'baz' ], 'ping');

=item size( [ $id ] )

Acquire the number of messages pending for given ID or list of IDs.

 $count = $inbox->size('foo');
 %pairs = $inbox->size();

=item end( [ $id ] )

Signal that there is no more work to be sent for given ID. Omitting an ID
will end all IDs. Once ended, no more messages may be sent.

 $inbox->end('foo');
 $inbox->end();

=back

=head1 REQUIREMENTS

MCE::Inbox requires Perl 5.10.1 or later and MCE::Shared 1.834 minimally.

On Microsoft Windows, please use MCE::Shared 1.835 for improved C<dequeue>
performance using MCE::Queue or MCE::Shared->queue. The fix is in MCE::Util
1.834. Loading threads first before this module will use Thread::Queue.
It must be 3.07 or later with C<end> and C<limit> capabilities.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=item * L<https://github.com/marioroy/mce-examples/tree/master/chameneos>

=head1 AUTHOR

Mario E. Roy, S<E<lt>marioeroy AT gmail DOT comE<gt>>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2018 by Mario E. Roy

MCE::Inbox is released under the same license as Perl.

See L<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/> for more information.

=cut
